README.md, before:

# Sencast

Sencast is a toolbox to download and derive water quality parameters from satellite images. It acts as a framework for 
the use a variety of processors such as Idepix, Polymer, Sen2Cor and Acolite. It supports ESA satellites Sentinel 2 and 
Sentinel 3 and USGS satellite Landsat 8.

It is developed and maintained by the [SURF Remote Sensing group at Eawag](https://www.eawag.ch/en/department/surf/main-focus/remote-sensing/).
## Installation
Anaconda and Snap Desktop are required to install Sencast
- [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com)
- [SNAP Desktop](https://step.esa.int/main/download/snap-download/)
```
git clone git@gitlab.com:eawag-rs/sencast.git
conda env create -f ~/sencast/sencast.yml
```
Then create your **environment file** (use environments/example.ini as a template) and test your installation as follows:
```
cd ~/sencast
conda activate sencast
python3 utils/testing.py
```
This will output a log of which processors are functioning. After the above steps it is normal that only Idepix and MPH 
processors function. For installation of the additional processors refer to the full documentation below:

## Documentation

Full documentation is available at [ReadTheDocs](https://sencast.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?).

## Papers

**SenCast: Copernicus Satellite Data on Demand**  
*D. Odermatt, J. Runnalls, J. Sturm, A. Damm*  
[German](https://www.dora.lib4ri.ch/eawag/islandora/object/eawag%3A21549/datastream/PDF4/Odermatt-2020-SenCast-%28accepted_version%29.pdf) [English](https://www.dora.lib4ri.ch/eawag/islandora/object/eawag%3A21549/datastream/PDF3/Odermatt-2020-SenCast-%28unspecified_8a1c1609%29.pdf)

## Docker

### Build

`docker build -t eawag/sencast:0.0.1 .`

### Run Tests

docker run -v /media/jamesrunnalls/JamesSSD/Eawag/DIAS:/DIAS -v $(pwd):/sencast -it eawag/sencast:0.0.1 -e docker_test.ini -p test_S2_processors.ini

`docker run -v /DIAS:/DIAS -v $(pwd):/sencast -it eawag/sencast:0.0.1 -e docker.ini -t`

### Run script

`docker run -v /DIAS:/DIAS -v $(pwd):/sencast -it eawag/sencast:0.0.1 -e docker.ini -p example.ini`

### Run Container

`docker run -it --entrypoint /bin/bash eawag/sencast:0.0.1`

docker run -v /media/jamesrunnalls/JamesSSD/Eawag/DIAS:/DIAS -v $(pwd):/sencast -it --entrypoint /bin/bash eawag/sencast:0.0.1

Commit message:

Add information about using docker commands

README.md, after:

# Sencast

Sencast is a toolbox to download and derive water quality parameters from satellite images. It acts as a framework for 
the use a variety of processors such as Idepix, Polymer, Sen2Cor and Acolite. It supports ESA satellites Sentinel 2 and 
Sentinel 3 and USGS satellite Landsat 8.

It is developed and maintained by the [SURF Remote Sensing group at Eawag](https://www.eawag.ch/en/department/surf/main-focus/remote-sensing/).
## Installation
Anaconda and Snap Desktop are required to install Sencast
- [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com)
- [SNAP Desktop](https://step.esa.int/main/download/snap-download/)
```
git clone git@gitlab.com:eawag-rs/sencast.git
conda env create -f ~/sencast/sencast.yml
```
Then create your **environment file** (use environments/example.ini as a template) and test your installation as follows:
```
cd ~/sencast
conda activate sencast
python3 utils/testing.py
```
This will output a log of which processors are functioning. After the above steps it is normal that only Idepix and MPH 
processors function. For installation of the additional processors refer to the full documentation below:

## Documentation

Full documentation is available at [ReadTheDocs](https://sencast.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?).

## Papers

**SenCast: Copernicus Satellite Data on Demand**  
*D. Odermatt, J. Runnalls, J. Sturm, A. Damm*  
[German](https://www.dora.lib4ri.ch/eawag/islandora/object/eawag%3A21549/datastream/PDF4/Odermatt-2020-SenCast-%28accepted_version%29.pdf) [English](https://www.dora.lib4ri.ch/eawag/islandora/object/eawag%3A21549/datastream/PDF3/Odermatt-2020-SenCast-%28unspecified_8a1c1609%29.pdf)

## Docker

Manual installation of all the processors is challenging and can be simplified through the use of a docker container.

As this container contains non-open source code, the pre-build image is only available internally at Eawag. However, external parties can build the image
themselves by including `docker_dependencies/polymer-v4.15.tar.gz` in the repository.

Users should first ensure they have a functioning docker installation.

### Build

The docker image can be built using the following command:

`docker build -t eawag/sencast:0.0.1 .`

### Run Tests

In order to test the setup is working the following command can be run which will output a report on the 
functioning of the processors. This must be run from inside the sencast repository. 

The option `-v /DIAS:/DIAS` maps the input/ output folders to a location outside the container. This should be updated to 
the appropriate location, e.g. `-v /home/user/DIAS:/DIAS`

`docker run -v /DIAS:/DIAS -v $(pwd):/sencast -it eawag/sencast:0.0.1 -e docker.ini -t`

`-e` name of the environment file in `sencast/environments`
`-t` flag to indicate a test should be run 

### Run script

In order to run a parameters file it can be passed to the command as follows using the `-p` flag.

`docker run -v /DIAS:/DIAS -v $(pwd):/sencast -it eawag/sencast:0.0.1 -e docker.ini -p example.ini`

`-p` name of the parameter file in `sencast/parameters`

### Run Interactive Container

Sometimes it is desirable to interact directly with the container, this can be achieved with the following command:

`docker run -v /DIAS:/DIAS -v $(pwd):/sencast -it --entrypoint /bin/bash eawag/sencast:0.0.1`
